# Election_Analysis

## Project Overview

A Colorado Board of Elections employee requests the following tasks be completed.

    1. Calculkate the total number of votes cast
    2. Get a complete list of candidates who recieved votes
    3. Calculate the total number of votes each candidate recieved.
    4. Calculate the percentage of cotes each candidate won.
    5. Determine the winnder of the election based on popular vote.

## Resources

- Data Resource: election_results.csv
- Software: Python 3.9.1, Visual Studio Code 1.51.1

## Results

The Analysis of the election show that:
- There were 369,711 votes cast in the election
- The candidates were:
    - Charles Casper Stockham
    - Diana DeGette
    - Raymon Anthony Doane
- The Candidates Results were:
    - Charles Casper Stockham recieved 23.0% of the vote with 85,213 number of votes.
    - Diana DeGette recieved 73.8% of the vote with 272,892 number of votes.
    - Raymon Anthony Doane recieved 3.1% of the vote with 11,606 number of votes.
- The winner of the election was:
    - Diana DeGette who recieved 73.8% of the vote and  with 272,892 number of votes.

# Election Analysis Challenge

## Challenge Overview

The Colorado Board of Elections employee has requested additional tasks be performed.

    1. Calculate voter turnout for each county
    2. Determine the percentage of votes from each county out of the total count
    3. Determine the county with the highest voter turnout

## Results

Election analysis of each county's votes indicate:
- Jefferson county had 10.5% of the total amount of votes with 38,855 individual votes.
- Denver County had 82.8% of the total amount of votes with 306,055 individual votes.
- Arapahoe County had 6.7% of the total amount of votes with 24,801 individual votes.
- Denver had the highest voter turnout of any other county.

## Summary

This script would be useful in any election as the variables are not dependent on the current candidates being elected, but instead are generated by the data available in the csv file. We could even expand the information collected and analyzed by adding more nested statements within the `for` loop. By adding more statments we could analyzed votes for different candidates running for different offices. By creating similar nested `if` statments to the ones that already exist and creating a list told hold that data, it would be relatively easy to analyze more elections within the same code. We could also verify that all the voter IDs are correct. By adding another statment within the `for` loop we could verify that the voter IDs all match the correct format. In conclusion, the code is incredibly versatile and could be easily adapted to meet the needs of any eletion audit.